5 rules for a healthy life
Thanks to better healthcare, most people are living healthier and longer lives.
Someone who is born today can expect to live about 35 years longer than someone who was born in the 19th century.
It is even thought that in the future more and more people will celebrate their 100th birthdays.
Here are 5 rules for a healthy life.
1. Get off the sofa
Sure, it is comfortable to sit on the sofa and watch TV.
But doctors say you should get off the sofa.
To keep fit, you have to walk at least 10,000 steps every day.
In the past, people's jobs required more physical effort.
They often had to walk for miles every day.
When farmers were working in the fields, they were keeping fit at the same time.
Think about it. Do you get the same amount of exercise today as they did in the past?
2. Eat healthy food
It is important to eat food that is fresh and natural, for example, fruit and vegetables.
Fast food is not healthy. You should only have it once in a while.
Eating too much of the wrong food will harm your health.
3. Rest while you can
When we were babies, we slept for much of the night.
Teenagers do not need as much sleep as babies, but it is important for you to get about 8 hours sleep a night.
At weekends, you have got more time, so use it not just for your friends, but for rest too.
4. Do not worry. Be happy.
Many people believe that happiness is important for our general health.
Sometimes it is not easy to be a teenager because of the difficulties of school, exams or friendships.
If you are worried about something, talk to your parents or your teacher.
5. Say no to smoking
Yes, you knew I was going to say this. It is so important.
Smoking is not cool. It is dangerous. It harms nearly every part of your body.
Think about how your family and friends will feel and think about what it will do to your health.